dpkg:
    Stands for "Debian Package Manager" and it allows you to perform various package-related operations.
    
    Command -in Debian-based Linux distros- used for managing software packages on your system.
    A lower-level package management tool used by APT.



    In practice, most users prefer to use apt (or its frontends like apt-get and aptitude) for day-to-day package management tasks.
    It provides a higher level of abstraction and takes care of many complexities associated with package management,
        making it easier for users to work with software packages.

    dpkgis typically used directly only in specific situations,
        such as when (manually installing packages from local.deb files) or when (troubleshooting package issues).


    Commands to install or remove a package: 
        [sudo dpkg -i package.deb]   -install a package(firstly download the file).
        [sudo dpkg -r package-name]  -uninstall a package.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Differences between [apt] and [dpkg]: 
    -Package Management Level:
        dpkg operates at a lower level of the package management stack.
            It is responsible for the installation, removal, and querying of individual package files (.deb) on a local system.
            It doesn't handle package dependencies or repository management.

        apt (Advanced Package Tool) operates at a higher level.
            It is a more user-friendly package management tool that automates tasks like resolving
                and installing package dependencies, retrieving packages from online repositories, 
                and handling package upgrades and installations. 
        
        (apt uses dpkg under the hood for package installation and removal)


    -Dependency Resolution:
        dpkg does not automatically resolve or install dependencies.
            If a package requires other packages to function correctly,
            you need to manually install those dependencies before or after installing the package itself.
        
        apt automatically resolves and installs dependencies for you.
            When you use apt to install or upgrade a package, it checks the package's dependencies and installs them if necessary.


    -Repository Management:
        dpkg doesn't interact with online repositories. It works only with local package files.
        
        apt manages online repositories.
            It can update the package lists from repositories, fetch packages from them, and keep your system up-to-date with the latest software versions.


    -Ease of Use:
        dpkg is more manual and requires the user to handle many aspects of package management,
            such as downloading, installing, and resolving dependencies manually.

        apt is more user-friendly and automates many package management tasks.
            It provides a simpler and more convenient way to install, update, and manage software packages.